---
title: "MP3: Movement Primitive-Based (Re-)Planning Policy"
# excerpt: "Philipp Becker, Sebastian Markgraf, Fabian Otto, Gerhard Neumann"
authors: "Fabian Otto, Hongyi Zhou, Onur Celik, Ge Li, Rudolf Lioutikov, Gerhard Neumann"
conference: CoRL Workshop on Learning Effective Abstractions for Planning (LEAP)
categories:
  - CoRL
tags: 
  - Model-free
  - Movement Primitives 
  - Trust Regions
link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2306.12729
website: https://intuitive-robots.github.io/mp3_website/
bibtex: /assets/data/cite/otto2023mp3.bib
---

# Abstract

We introduce a novel deep reinforcement learning (RL) approach called Movement Primitive-based Planning Policy (MP3). By integrating movement primitives (MPs) into the deep RL framework, MP3 enables the generation of smooth trajectories throughout the whole learning process while effectively learning from sparse and non-Markovian rewards. Additionally, MP3 maintains the capability to adapt to changes in the environment during execution. Although many early successes in robot RL have been achieved by combining RL with MPs, these approaches are often limited to learning single stroke-based motions, lacking the ability to adapt to task variations or adjust motions during execution. Building upon our previous work, which introduced an episode-based RL method for the non-linear adaptation of MP parameters to different task variations, this paper extends the approach to incorporating replanning strategies. This allows adaptation of the MP parameters throughout motion execution, addressing the lack of online motion adaptation in stochastic domains requiring feedback. We compared our approach against state-of-the-art deep RL and RL with MPs methods. The results demonstrated improved performance in sophisticated, sparse reward settings and in domains requiring replanning.
